Tissues of the Tooth
Enamel:
Enamel is the hardest tissue in the human body, covering the
tooth's surface and protecting the underlying dentin from damage and bacteria.
Its tightly packed, highly calcified prisms provide strength against chewing and acidity.
Dentin:
Dentin makes up the bulk of the tooth, situated beneath the enamel.
It contains dentinal tubules that transmit sensations to the pulp and can regenerate to repair minor damage.
Pulp:
The pulp is the soft tissue at the tooth's center, rich in blood vessels, nerves, and connective tissue.
It nourishes the tooth and allows for sensory functions, divided into
coronal pulp (in the crown) and radicular pulp (in the root).
Cementum:
Cementum is a calcified tissue covering the tooth's root, connecting with enamel at the cementoenamel junction.
It anchors periodontal fibers that stabilize the tooth in the jaw and can regenerate to assist in recovery from injuries.